# Simulating-Passengers-Risk
Security is one of the major and fundamental need of any country. Everyone wants their system such that there is no fear of any kind of threat but there is always a possibility of breakthrough in the system. What many would think of doing is to employ all the possible technology and always trying to be on the top of the game, but is it really worth it to invest such huge money if the improvement is not quantiable? In particular, if we talk about aviation security, then it's major goal is to prevent harm to aircraft, passengers, and crew, as well as to support national security and counter-terrorism policy1. While lots of efforts have been done to improve the reliability and safety from the engineering point of view, new security threats are emerging day by day. A very basic question that arises now is: Do all the new security measures really make the aircraft more secure, and if yes, can we quantify it? The security objective then becomes that of ensuring the integrity of the process. The answer to such a question is not at all easy. In general the efficiency of the entire airport is checked with the help of Red Teams by Department of civil aviation. This method is time-consuming, very expensive and ad hoc. We, therefore, use the tools of simulation to answer some of such highly non-trivial questions that can arise in the airport security system. Mainly we did the analysis for Bombay airport, but similar analysis for any other airport or group of airports can be done. This is joint work with my collegue khushboo Agarwal at IIT Bombay.
